Currently, if you're in the piano roll view in the MIDI editor, you get a wonderful effect where the black keys have slightly darkened rows and the white keys are the normal brightness. This aids visual navigation of octaves and other intervals.

I'd love to have an option to amplify this difference by making the rows slightly different heights.

The width of the black keys to the white keys is a ratio of about 2:3; if you consider that we need to extend the black keys to the ends of the white keys and that the black keys' space is cut out of the white keys, that might suggest that we're already at the optimal solution by making them equivalent heights. However, if you look closely at a piano keyboard, you'll notice that what makes the blocks so distinctive in shape is that the black keys are not all centred on the grooves between the white keys, but are offset differently depending on which pair of keys we're talking about. The first attached image makes this clear by annotating the percentage of each black key that overlaps each white key.

Now, Reaper gets some of this right. The piano roll itself at the left is *pretty* close to what's needed. The black keys are spaced approximately proportionally to these ratios. For example, if the black key is 15 units high with 1 unit reserved for the groove between the white keys, then between CD it's 5:1:9; DE 9:1:5; FG 4:1:10; GA 7:1:7; AB 10:1:4. However, there are two issues. First, if the black keys are 15 units high, the white keys are only 19 units high, when they should be 22-23. Second, the black keys on the piano roll are not actually aligned with the darkened rows. The second attached image shows this.

The third attached image, then, shows a proposed change where the key size ratios are altered and the darkened rows are aligned with the black keys. This is with 15:25 as the black:white ratio, which seemed to work well for me. Note that this could certainly be a checkbox titled something like "Scale and align piano roll rows to physical piano dimensions" or something, to make sure those who prefer the current equally spaced system still have that available. Or perhaps allow entering of relative key ratio sizes in case people prefer other ones... You can fiddle with it yourself using Python 3 and Pygame with this very rough little demo if you want: https://github.com/unfamiliarplace/reaper-keys

Personally, as a pianist first, I would find this an aid to visual navigation. It would be like the back of the keyboard were extended across the whole MIDI editor space and I could more easily spot intervals. Thanks for considering!